# DigitalAlarmClock-using-Nexys-4-Artix-7-FPGA-board
The main objective of the project is to set off an alarm using a digital clock on 7 segment display using a Nexys 4 Artix-7 FPGA Board. The digital clock by default displays the run time and time can be set by using time set assigned to switch on board. The feature like alarm is also set by using alarm set and alarm on switch assigned on kit. The digital clock designed is a 24-clock hour format. It displays the time in format of hours: minutes: seconds.

This project makes use of FPGA for the hardware implementation of digital clock. As soon as the FPGA is switched on, the clock starts. The FPGA and on-board clock will generate the timing signals. The clock time and alarm time can be set using the dip switches on the board. The proposed digital clock design is enhanced using the digital operations: counting, comparing, incrementing and decrementing. The clock time can be set using timeset switch and the alarm time can be set using alarmset switch. The alarm will be on when clock time is equal to alarm time. Minutes and hours of the alarm can be incremented and decremented by using the push buttons on the board.

The proposed digital clock design displays the time on seven segment display of FPGA board. The functional blocks are designed by using Verilog Hardware Description language. As discussed earlier initially a second clock is generated by using global clock and according to that clock, the second pulse gets incremented and when it is equal to 59 then it is set to zero and minute pulse is incremented and similarly the hour pulse will be incremented when it is 60 minutes.
